.TH MUPDF 1 "June 12, 2012"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
mupdf \- MuPDF is a lightweight PDF viewer written in portable C
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mupdf
.RI [ options ] " PDFfile"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page briefly describes the
.B mupdf
command.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
A description of each of the supported options is included below.
.TP
.B \-p password
Uses the given password to open an encrypted PDF file.
The password is tried both as user and owner password.
.TP
.B \-r resolution
Changes the initial zoom level, specified as the resolution in dpi.
The default value is 72.
.SH MOUSE AND KEY BINDINGS
In addition to the key bindings described below, the mouse can also be
used. Clicking the left mouse button follows links within the PDF while
dragging with the left mouse button pans the page. Dragging with the right
mouse button selects an area and copies the enclosed text to the clipboard
buffer. Using the scroll-wheel while pressing Control zooms in/out, if
Shift is pressed on the other hand then the page is panned.
.TP
.B L, R
Rotate page left (clockwise) or right (counter-clockwise).
.TP
.B h, j, k, l
Scroll page left, down, up, or right.
.TP
.B \+, \-
Zoom in or out.
.TP
.B W, H
Zoom so page exactly fits width or height of window.
.TP
.B w
Shrinkwrap window to fit the page.
.TP
.B r
Reload file.
.TP
.B . pgdn right space
Go to the next page
.TP
.B , pgup left b backspace
Go to the previous page
.TP
.B <, >
Skip back/forth 10 pages at a time.
.TP
.B m
Mark page for snap back.
.TP
.B t
Pop back to the latest mark.
.TP
.B [0-9]m
Save the current page number in the numbered register.
.TP
.B [0-9]t
Go to the page saved in the numbered register.
.TP
.B 123g
Go to page 123.
.TP
.B /
Search for text.
.TP
.B n, N
Find the next/previous search result.
.TP
.B c
Toggle between color and grayscale rendering.
.TP
.B i
Toggle between normal and inverted color rendering.
.P
Sending a \fBSIGHUP\fR signal to the mupdf process will also cause the viewed
file to be reloaded automatically, for use in e.g. build scripts.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mupdfclean (1),
.BR mupdfdraw (1),
.BR mupdfshow (1).
.SH AUTHOR
MuPDF is Copyright 2006-2012 Artifex Software, Inc.
