.TH MUPDF 1 "June 3, 2026"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\" no hyphenation
.nh
.\" adjust left
.ad l
.
.SH NAME
mupdf \- MuPDF is a lightweight PDF viewer written in portable C
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY mupdf
.RI [ options ]
.I file
.RI [ page-number ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B MuPDF
is a document viewer that can show
.BR PDF ,
.BR XPS ,
.BR EPUB ,
.BR XHTML ,
.BR CBZ ,
and various image formats such as
.BR PNG ,
.BR JPEG ,
.BR GIF ,
and
.BR TIFF .
.
.SH OPTIONS
A description of each of the supported options is included below.
.
.TP
.BI \-b\~ box-name
Use the given page box (MediaBox, CropBox, BleedBox, TrimBox, or ArtBox)
.TP
.BI \-c\~ profile-filename
Set the display ICC profile to the one in the named file.
.TP
.BI \-p\~ password
Uses the given password to open an encrypted PDF file.
The password is tried both as user and owner password.
.TP
.BI \-r\~ resolution
Changes the initial zoom level, specified as the resolution in dpi.
The default value is 72.
.TP
.BI \-A\~ bits
Changes the anti-aliasing quality, specified as a number of bits between 0
(off) and 8 (best).
The default value is 8.
.TP
.BI \-B\~ RRGGBB
Sets the full-page black tint using hexadecimal color syntax.
The default value is 303030.
.TP
.BI \-C\~ RRGGBB
Sets the full-page white tint using hexadecimal color syntax.
The default value is FFFFF0.
.TP
.BI \-H\~ height
Page height in points for EPUB layout.
.TP
.B \-I
Invert colors.
.TP
.B \-J
Disable JavaScripts in PDF forms.
.TP
.BI \-R\~ extraction-options
Enable reflow and set the text extraction options.
.TP
.BI \-S\~ size
Font size in points for EPUB layout.
.TP
.BI \-U\~ CSS-file
User style sheet for EPUB layout.
.TP
.BI \-W\~ width
Page width in points for EPUB layout.
.TP
.B \-X
Disable document styles for EPUB layout.
.TP
.BI \-Y\~ factor
Set the UI scaling factor.
.
.SH MOUSE BEHAVIOR
.
.TP
.B Left mouse button click
A left click on a hyper link follows the link.
In presentation mode advances to the next page.
.TP
.B Right mouse button click
In presentation mode goes back to the previous page.
.TP
.B Left mouse button drag
Pan the page.
Panning beyond the bottom or top
edge will go to the next or previous page.
.TP
.B Right mouse button drag
Select text in an area.
On X11, the selected text
can be pasted in another application with a middle click.
Press
.B Ctrl+C
to copy the selected text to the clipboard.
On Windows, the selected text will automatically be copied
to the clipboard.
.TP
.B Scroll wheel
Pan page up or down.
Does not change page when reaching the bottom or top edge.
.TP
.B Shift + Scroll wheel
Pan page left or right.
.TP
.B Control + Scroll wheel
Zoom in or out.
.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
.SS Page navigation
.TP
.B . pgdn space
Go to the next page.
.TP
.B , pgup b
Go to the previous page.
.TP
.B 123g
Go to page 123.
.TP
.BR g ,\~ G
Go to the first or last page.
.TP
.B m
Mark current page for snap back.
Up to 256 pages can be marked.
.TP
.B t
Go backward one step in mark history.
.TP
.B T
Go forward one step in mark history.
.TP
.RI [ 0\(en9 ]\c
.B m
Save the current page number in the numbered register.
.TP
.RI [ 0\(en9 ]\c
.B t
Go to the page saved in the numbered register.
.
.SS Zooming and rotating
.TP
.BR + ,\~ \-
Zoom in or out.
.TP
.BR W ,\~ H
Zoom page to exactly fit width/height of window.
.TP
.B Z
Zoom page to fit either to width or height of window.
.TP
.B z
Reset zoom level.
.TP
.BR [ ,\~ ]
Rotate page left (counter-clockwise) or right (clockwise).
.TP
.B w
Shrinkwrap window to fit the page.
.TP
.B f
Toggles fullscreen mode.
.
.SS Panning
.TP
.BR h ,\~ left ,\~ j ,\~ k ,\~ l ,\~ right
Pan page left, down, up, or right.
.
.SS Searching
.TP
.BR / ,\~ ?
Search for text forwards or backwards.
.TP
.BR n ,\~ N
Find the next/previous search result.
.
.SS Miscellaneous
.TP
.B F1
Show key bindings help.
.TP
.B Escape
Stop searching and/or remove focus from annotation/widget.
.TP
.BR < ,\~ >
Increase/decrease EPUB/XHTML font size.
.TP
.B r
Reload file.
.TP
.B p
Toggle presentation mode. (mupdf-x11 only)
.TP
.B c
Toggle between color and grayscale rendering. (mupdf-x11 only)
.TP
.B C
Toggle full-page color tinting.
.TP
.B I
Toggle between normal and inverted color rendering.
.TP
.B E
Toggle ICC color mode.
.TP
.B e
Toggle spot color mode.
.TP
.B A
Set bit of anti-aliasing to use. The default is 8.
0 means no anti-aliasing,
9 means no anti-aliasing, centre-of-pixel rule,
10 means no anti-aliasing, any-part-of-a-pixel rule.
.TP
.B P
Show page number and total number of pages.
.TP
.B i
Show dialog box with information about the opened document.
.TP
.B B
Change used page box. (MediaBox, CropBox, BleedBox, TrimBox, or ArtBox)
The active page box is mentioned in the information dialog box.
.TP
.B o
Show/hide document outline panel.
.TP
.B a
Show/hide annotation panel.
.TP
.B R
Show/hide redaction panel.
.TP
.B u
Show/hide undo/redo panel.
.TP
.B Y
Show/hide layers list.
.TP
.B o
Start/stop highlighting links.
.TP
.B F
Start/stop highlighting form widgets.
.TP
.BR ` ,\~ F12
Show JS console.
.TP
.B S
Save updated document file.
.TP
.B q
Quit.
.
.SH SIGNALS
.
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Sending a
.B SIGHUP
signal to the mupdf process will also cause the viewed file to be reloaded
automatically, for use in e.g. build scripts.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mutool (1).
.
.SH AUTHOR
MuPDF is Copyright 2006\(en2026 Artifex Software, Inc.
